http://cguard90.github.io/

Explain how to create a repository on GitHub and clone the repository to your local computer to a non-technical person.
  To create a repository on GitHub, set up an account on GitHub, and then look for the plus sign in the top right hand corner. Click there, and you will recieve a drop down menu. The drop down menu will give you the option to select 'create new repository', click on this option. it will ask you for a name for the repository, which you can create, or you can use their suggestion. To clone this to your computer, look for the https clone URL field on the mid right side of the page, and click on that field once. The whole URL will be highlighted, copy this URL. In your terminal, type 'git clone' and paste the URL.

Describe what open source means.
  Open source code is code that can be provided to you so that you have both the end product, and the source code (Linux is a good example of what open source can do). It is generally speaking, free to the public (although certain licenses do allow the sale of the code they just have to provide a disclaimer / license). You are able to make changes on your own and use the code as you see fit (generally).

What do you think about Open Source? Does it make you nervous or protective? Does it feel like utopia?
  Neither, probably becuase it's been around a while. I suppose it kind of does in some senses remind me of the premise behind the 'star trek' universe, where money was eliminated, because it's essentially someone's product offered for free. I think it has it's pluses, it allows for people to have access to things that may not have otherwise gotten a launch. I'm sure there are some negatives, licenses that get ignored, etc. I just don't know any examples to dive into. All things have their benefits and draw backs, open source code is no different.

Assess the importance of using licenses.
  Licenses are important because it determines how the code can be used and distributed. Additionally licenses determine if the code will be able to be monetized, or if it will stay free. Licensing also gives the creators the ability to take credit for the code, rather than having it ripped off by someone else, and have that person be able to take credit.
What concepts were solidified in the challenge? Did you have any "aha" moments? What did you struggle with?
  I did have an aha moment. After completing the previous exercise I forgot to pull the master branch back into my computer. I learned that on this when I uploaded website info to git, but then it wasn't on my computer. 'git pull origin master' was totally overlooked by me before, so hurray for that. I like the reinforcement of using git, and using it through the terminal. It's good stuff, I have really enjoyed that so far. I am adjusting to it still, so yes I did run into a few small complications (as outlined above) but I'm happy I also found the solution. The other thing I did was create a branch from my phase-0 repo first, rather than changing over to the week-1 repo. So I will have to be careful of that. This did let me practice deleting unnecessary / empty branches through terminal though ('git branch -d branch-name').

Did you find any resources on your own that helped you better understand a topic? I actually looked up the info on GitHub about how to Pull the updated branch, it didn't really give me a direct answer I needed for the step 'Git pull origin master', but I also have a horrible habit of skimming, so sometimes I do find myself needing to go back and re-read becuase I just started skimming and key details were missed. I thought the licensing piece (probably because it covered open source content, rather than trying to license code for profit) fairly straight forward, but it is also at a high level. I'm sure there's so much more to it than we have been exposed to so far.